[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: These are just interfaces
that most of you will probably be familiar
with because you've been
interacting with them.
You maybe have not been aware that
you've been interacting with them, but
you have been nonetheless definitely if
you're in any amount of JavaScript, and
you certainly have today.
So if you're here you have already.
Congratulations.
So we're going to talk about data
structures in kind of two parts.
We're gonna talk about interfaces and then
we're going to talk about implementations.
So interfaces means that I know
how to interact with it, but
I have no idea how it works on the inside,
right?
So it's a black box that has a couple
buttons that I know how to push,
but I have no idea what
the buttons actually do.
Then the implementation is
what's inside the black box.
How does it actually work?
So the first part, we're going
to talk about the interfaces and
then we're going to talk
about the implementation.
Okay?
So we're going talk about sets first.
>> Speaker 2: Can we, hey, Brian?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I've got
a few questions here.
>> Brian Holt: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: From Drew,
this is related to a technically
insertion sort but the last section.
He's asking, translating this to
the physical world most people probably
alphabetize things with insertion sort,
but
would any of the other algorithms
be more effective or efficient?
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question.
I think the answer to that question
is regardless of what you're sorting.
Yeah, I think I can unequivocally state
that regardless of what you're sorting,
insertions sort is useful for
things that are sorted or nearly sorted.
Because it's going to run
through only a couple of times.
And then for everything else, either merge
sort or quick sort's gonna be better.
Depending if you need stability and
if you need,
if you may be feeding it a sorted list.
So despite the fact that you ma,
in your head be using insertion sort for
some things
>> Brian Holt: Usually merge sort or
quick sort, in fact almost always merge
sort or quick sort is gonna be faster.
>> Brian Holt: Since we're talking about
this, we'll just do something that
I forgot to cover real quick,
which is variations of Quick Sort.
We just chose the pivot as last number.
The most popular implementation i.e.
the one that you're normally gonna do
if you were to implement Quick Sort
is called Quick Sort 3.
So if you remember here.
>> Brian Holt: [INAUDIBLE] If I feed it a,
>> Brian Holt: I got to sort this again.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so if I have, come on,
just let me draw, okay,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
If you remember correctly what
I was showing you before,
that is that 5 is gonna be the pivot and
then everything is gonna be in the left.
Right?
And it's gonna keep doing that,
which is really inefficient for
Quick Sort.
There's a implementation called Quick Sort
3 that kind of mitigates this risk.
And what it does is it says,
hey I have the first element,
the middle element, and the last element.
And I'm gonna pick the pivot that
is in the middle of those three.
So in this particular case,
you're going to say okay,
now my pivot is going to be 3.
So it's slightly more than you need to do.
Like if rather than just
picking the last one, but
this mitigates the case of having a sorted
list because now my list is going to look
like 1, 2 and 4,
5 which is decidedly much better.
You're still leaving yourself up to like,
what happens if
I have a list of 1, 7, 1, 5, 1?
That's still a problem and obviously
that's not gonna really fix your problem.
But I would say this is a much
more smaller chance, right?
The chances of you getting a sorted
list is much greater, right?
So that's called Quicksort 3, where you
choose one of three pivots, the middle,
the end or the first one.
But there's other variations of,
that I'm not aware of,
that you can also look up as well.